---
title: "Porch Magic"
date_written: 2026-02-25
genre: "fiction"
series: "Whispers of the Heartwood"
world: "Wand"
characters: ["Marcus", "Alana"]
generation: "Gen 2b"
published: true
---
Feeling the night air kiss her skin, Alana started to bring her broomstick closer to the city below her. The lights of the large houses and laughter floated up to meet her. Casting a glance towards the moon, she pulls in a deep breath, regretting that her night ride was coming to a close. The party is necessary, but not something she's looking forward to.

Alighting on the porch of her family home, she lays the broom in its normal spot. Taking a turn in front of the large mirror, she pats her hair, reapplies her lipstick and checks where she's tucked in her favourite knives. The sleek dress swishes and dances, highlighting her curves.

The sound of the party increased a notch, she looked up to see the glass door opening and Marcus back-lit by the chandelier.

"Oh, I'm glad you're back, Alana. Uncle Akron keeps asking me what my plans are for the holidays and I just can't..." He crosses the porch, his dark hair sparkling in the moonlight. Grinning impishly, he extends a glass of absinthe. "I thought you'd want this, before going in."

"Oh, thank you. Yes..." Alana reaches for the glass, a wide smile lighting up her face. "I know they mean well, but how can we distract them from asking so many questions?" Her eyes sparkle as she brings the glass to her red lips.

"Well, dear sister, I suppose we could tell them about where you go every night..." He raises an eyebrow, tilting his chin in the direction she had returned from.

Tossing him a glare, Alana turns away. "Like you know! What about creating a diversion? You know, nothing that's too mischievous, just enough to distract them from insisting on nosiness." Rolling her eyes, she takes a sip of the sparkling liquid. "Oh! Adrienne outdid herself this time, the herbs are perfect."

"Indeed. A diversion, eh?" The side of his mouth quirks up in a lop sided grin. "Well, water, fire or air?" Crossing the landing, he tosses a leg over the parapet, brushing the ivy on the outer wall. Patting the stone in front of him, he welcomes her to conspire.

Biting her lip, she sits on the stone, curling her legs under her. "What are the decorations this time? I was able to escape helping her."

"It's been so warm, so she went with ice on the vertical surfaces, and fairy lights to reflect... It feels like fireflies are dancing everywhere. Not Adrienne's best work, but it's cool and very pretty." Pulling his jacket open to let the air touch his chest, Marcus withdraws his pocket watch. "We have five minutes to plan a diversion, if we're going to. It's almost 9."

"Ice reflecting? What about those air elementals we played with last week? I don't think anyone else has seen them, yet", Alana says, withdrawing her wand, running hey finger tips along its length, anticipating the surge of energy and the connection.

Focusing on the sensation of the breath, how the warm night air fills her body, Alana raises the wand to her mouth and as she exhales mouths "Caaaaael-luuuum". As the air crosses the wand tip, a small creature forms, sitting with crossed legs and hands on its knees. Slowly, it unfurls wings and shakes hair to create a waterfall of starlight. Tilting its head, it expectantly stares up at Alana.

"We have a party that is very pretty and lots of people, ready to gawk. I was wondering if you and your friends would like to join us, so you can be appreciated for your beauty". Reaching into her pocket, Alana holds her breath; usually Marcus does the negotiations. Rubbing her thumb over her stone, she feels her fingers warm with energy again.

"They'll think I'm pretty? Yummy food?" The high, whistling voice reminds her of wind chimes. As the creature stared into her face Alana smiled. "Yes, well, you are very pretty, and there's lots of surfaces to see yourself in. And always lots of tasty food... Here's some absinthe, if you like." Titling her glass towards the elemental, she held her breath as the nymph smelled the glass.

Suddenly the elemental smiled, her gentle glow igniting as they splashed their hands into the liquid, tossing it over their face. "Yeeesss we like this. Shall be pretty, shall enjoy Abs-'nt. Shall call familia?"

"If you agree to break nothing, be courteous and leave when you're tired", Alana smiled, setting the terms firmly. "I'll even throw in this," she added, as she withdrew a small crystal from her pocket. The size of the nymphs head, she leans towards it, touching where her light reflects on the glittering surface.

"Yes, yes... Happy to do business. Will be pretty, will enjoy A's-nth, will be court'ous and break nuttin', will leave when tired and no more fun. Will bring familia." Taking the crystal in her hands the nymph winks out.

Raising her eyes from her wand tip, Alana looks up into Marcus's bright blue eyes. "Well, you set the terms well and made a tight deal. Let's go in and see the pretty creatures preening."

Grinning, Alana slips her wand back into her robes. Walking to the wide doors, she flashes a smile at Marcus. Wrapping her fingers around the curved door handle, she pulls it open. Suddenly, heat and music rush out to meet her, she pauses, taking an extra breath to acclimate. Scanning the crowd, she sees the small creatures preening on various surfaces. Half of the Sorralis nobles are jostling each other, nudging each other with elbows and gesturing to the air elementals. Gods, do they always have to be so stuffy? Taking a sip of her drink, Alana steps forward, joining Angelina in the buffet line.

Angelina turns, a wide smile lighting up her face as she sees Alana. "Ooooh I am glad to see you! Did you have a good ride?" Her eyes twinkle mischievously as she pushes a plate and utensils into her friend's hands.

"Yes, it was lovely to be out in the air. The sunset was perfect. And... my errand was successful, I'm making progress." A warm glow runs through her belly as she thinks about the task she's working towards. "What about you? How's your agenda going?" Her eyes dart towards Marcus, his back to them as he maneuvers a group of diplomats.

A faint flush tinges Angelina's dark cheeks, her lips pressed into a brief, thoughtful line. "I think... we're getting somewhere, she murmurs, "but let's catch up later. Anyone here you specifically want to talk to?"
